%%
[[Niedrest]]
[[Tourney at Niedrest]]
[[Kherovan Inquisition]]
[[Trinvale]]
[[Kherova]]
[[Tourney at Niedrest]]
[[Valeri Temzin]]
[[Zurán Barbeshvili]]
[[Darian Amouzgar]]
%%
<p>In February of 923PA, a series of events disrupted the peaceful live within the city of <a href="Niedrest" class="internal-link">Niedrest</a> on the dawn of spring. The exact persons involved, their motivations and their fate remain vastly unknown.</p>
<p>During the <a href="Tourney at Niedrest" class="internal-link">Tournament</a> hosted in honour of Mayor von Junkels Marriage, the <a href="Kherova" class="internal-link">kherovan</a> Embassy hosted by an arms of the <a href="kherovan Inquisition" class="internal-link">Inquisition</a> was assaulted and its representatives murdered in the streets of Eastcorners, a wealthier part of the rich city on the eastern bank of the Trinmo. The entire staff of the Ambassador, a dwarven Inquisitor by the name of  <a href="Valeri Temzin" class="internal-link">Temzin</a>, ended up dead in the streets or found as horribly disfigured corpses within Divin House, the kherovan Embassy itself.</p>
<p>The cities guard worked in close cooperation with agents of the Gethric Church, specifically under the guidance of the eponymous St. Fredrics Cathedral to figure out who the culprits were and were able to conclude a party of perhaps hired specialists including a dwarf, a goblin, a half-orc as well has two humans and a mage of sorts were responsible for the killings.</p>
<p>These details were corroborated by the staff of the Eastcorners Bathhouse where the same group staged a brutal attack on guests at the opportune timing of the highpoint of the Tourney itself, where the joust lead to many guards being stationed outside of the city walls. A total of six employees and two guests were killed as well as multiple members of staff and visitors injured, the use of terrible magicks described summoning unnatural fire and shadow deep within the Bathhouse hints at the groups proclivity for sorcery and could be related to their attack on the kherovans who have always condemned the liberal view of many countries on magical practice.</p>
<p><a href="Gislif Mellwing" class="internal-link">Gislif Mellwing</a>, a wealthy co-owner of the bathhouse and charitable member of the cities community proved to be a heroic figure during the incident. He was present during the assault and commanded the defence of his domicile against these murderous intruders, being even able to figure the names of a number of the attackers: Aratz Otxoa of the dwarven Hold of Ogul-Vosko, a mercenary named Danusz, last name unknown, a southern sorcerer named <a href="Darian Amouzgar" class="internal-link">Darian</a>, last name unknown, two unnamed figures, likely the goblin and the other human within the party, and a half-orc named Zurán, described by Gislifs source as the leader of the party. The Guard would conduct a curfew and grand search for these figures but was unable to find any of them still within the city after they were informed in the evening of the same day.</p>
<p>Two days after the attack in the eastcorner streets and one day after the assault on the bathhouse, Captain of the Guard Edric Gelbert ordered the forceful entry into the kherovan Embassy of Divin House on the orders of Mayor von Junkel himself as no response came from the Embassy for over two days and no living soul was seen leaving or entering the building. The Guards findings remain unknown to the public to this day, but the whole affair caused a large scale outrage within not only the cities beourgoise and raised questions in regards to civil liberty and guard presence but also within kherovan Embassies in Urland and Garmeley that demanded large scale investigations, the mayors resignation and reparations being paid to the eastern country. </p>

<p>The Niedrest Incidents long term consequences are perhaps best felt by the diminishing influence and diplomatic presence of not only the nation of kherova but specifically the somewhat controversial Inquisition especially, leading to the full scale condemnation of the Trinvale Republics from Kher two years later and the official financial and political support of the northern, gethric Green Banner League when Niedrest and the Trinvale Republics officially supported their enemies during the <a href="Garmian Succession Crisis" class="internal-link">Garmian Civil War</a>.</p>