%%
[[Carassa al-Kael]]
[[Material Realm]]
[[Spiritual Realm]]
[[Astral Realm]]
[[Basic Magical Theory]]
[[Weaving]]
%%
<p>As mentioned previously in the early entries of <a href="Basic Magical Theory" class="internal-link">Magical Theory</a>, the world we live in is usually seperated into  multiple different realms of existence: </p>
<p><a href="Material Realm" class="internal-link">The Material Realm</a></p>
<p><a href="Spiritual Realm" class="internal-link">The Spiritual Realm</a></p>
<p><a href="Astral Realm" class="internal-link">The Astral Realm</a></p>

<p>It is easily to imagine the as if layers stacked on top of each other, but while initially a useful image this quickly creates wrong assumptions and invites baseless theories. All realms exist on the greater Axes of Planar energy, that govern the cosmos and all the cosmos can be broken down between the Realms of Existence as well. They have no hierarchy amongst each other, they are ever relative and co-dependant, more like as if mixing two liquids within the same glass.</p>
<p>Life, or rather the occurrence of sentient organisms existing within space and time, is possible within all Realms, but due to the opposing influence of certain Planar Forces natural law will differ significantly. The Formative Grid, in accordance to the Universal Model of Kilvin, describes the planar forces of the Ideal and the Concrete counteracting, this is often assocated with the Harlinic Model in realmatic Theory: Harlinis Conscious and Harmonic Energy, flowing between the Material and Spiritual Realm, can be connected to the concrete and ideal planar forces respectively. This line of thought is best outlined in  <a href="Carassa al-Kael" class="internal-link">Carassa al-Kaels</a> work "Astral Space" that posits the initial assumptions of first the hierarchical and later on the universal models were correct but incomplete. </p>
<p>According to Carassa, what we would consider "Planes" are essentially just forces of the cosmos, that should be viewed as closed loops rather than two extremes on the same "Axis". What Vilkins Model describes as the Formative Grid and the Continual Grid are the essential fundaments of existence: Its forces tear the cosmos apart and cause Realms to divide between Spiritual and Material and Planar energy to flow from A to B. The Idea that realmatic theory is fundamentally different from planar theory, that "magic" and "weaving" are not still manipulating the very same building blocks of nature itself is flawed and to be abolished according to Carassa.</p>
<p>If the concrete and the ideal Forces, the formative grid, governs the divide between the material and spiritual realm, then how does the continual grid inform the same? This question sits at the heart of Carassas discovery and prove of the existence of the Astral Realm and the essential Thesis behind the Triquetra-Theory. The Astral Realm exists beyond Time, yet is still governed by it, it does not correspond to Space in the Spiritual or Material Realm in a relative matter but one can still take on form within it, a paradoxical conclusion.</p>
<p>To understand the division between the two known realms fully, the fundamental assumptions of the division between material and spiritual had to be questioned and revisioned. It was then when her discoveries within meadi ruins of the Augur led her to compose her masterpiece:</p>
 The Triquetra Model
 <p>Triqueta Theory imagines the realms of existence as a triangular figure composed of three interlaced arcs, the Astral, Material and Spiritual. The Forces of the Continual and Formative Grid were not exclusively ripping the cosmos into seperate halves, they were simply pushing and pulling on an infinite figure. The Astral realm did not represent another mirror dimension of want or will to a "primary" world of the material, as was long the common way to think about the spiritual realm, but rather gave the difference of the concrete force (what harlini called consciousness) and the ideal force (what harlini called harmony) meaning by interposing this difference on the Formative Grid with a unity on the Continual. While formative forces were opposed on the spiritual and material realm, time and space were synchronized, and while form and thought were aligned between material and astral, and spiritual and astral realm, time and space moved differently, explaining practices such as the "avatar walking" of Kobold Shamans, that would lead to shamans aging decades in hours and traversing miles in seconds.</p>