%%
[[Mercenary Culture]]
[[Battvian Civil War]]
[[Great Eastern War]]
[[Gethric Saints]]
[[Vihr]]
[[Battvia]]
[[Meadrath]]
[[Paper Cities]]
%%
<small><i>this article was written by Mank</i></small>
<h2>Formation and Reformation</h2>
<p>The Sons of Kasimir were created by a distant relative of <a href="Gethric Saints" class="internal-link">Kasimir</a> himself, a good 30 years after his demise during the Itharian expedition. The cult and reverence of Kasimir was starting to form at that point and the entrepreneur Esnasz of House Haywdicz was trying to make a profit. And a profit he did make; men and women from all over Vihr flocked to the Banner of Kasimir, a pristine flail, held by a hand covered in blood. They would grow in numbers rapidly, but their effectiveness was very doubtful. They were little more than rabble for the first few years; when they got a contract, many of the „devout“ believers would take their share with force from the losers. All the while Esnasz pocketed himself a fortune. But with time, the true believers, the stalwart and the veterans would come forth, while the thiefs, murderers and opportunists would be left behind. After a few decades, under the pressure of his officers, even the founder of House Haywdicz would take his leave.</p>

<p>And with even more time and hardship, the rabble would rise to hardened warriors and bearers of Kasimir's sainthood. From opportunists, zealots and vagabonds, the mercenary group transformed into something more akin to a military order. They would take in the weak yet determined to mold them into hardened warriors. The group had many changes to its structure, but after its first major reformation, the general hierarchy was similar. The focus was just less and less on zealousness and believe and more on fellowship and comraderie. Yet, they would always have a sizeable portion believe in the martyrdom of Kasimir and wanted to have an equally impactful death.</p>

<h2>Hierarchy</h2>
<p>After its reformation, overall command was not held by the same position. In the early days after the formation, it was the spiritual leader, the Duchowy, since the zeal was high and believers made the majority of members. Only at very few times and only in its darkest days the Zennic would be in power. The Zennic was the highest Martyr, he would sacrifice his soul and sanctity to shelter his fellow members, enemies and civilians from the spiritual demise that war and its destruction brought. He was also most knowledgeable history, politics and geography. In addition to being the spiritual leader, the Duchowy would also preserve and add to the written history of the company.</p>
<p>Especially after year 800 the Mortal Flail would hold the most power in this Triumvirate, being the military leader and oftentimes the most accomplished fighter. In general the Triumvirate, while not complete equals, would always value its council and they'd cooperate very closely.</p>
<p>The Kônmaster were the officers of the army and would be treated with great respect. They had their own tents close to their 3 Journeys or Towers, would receive greater pay and had some better equipment. The Konpodaz are the horsemasters of the Sons of Kasimir. They are probably the companies greatest assets, breeding and training their warhorses to perfection. Due to their position, they are in high standing within their company and enjoy higher amenities. Their tents are also closer to the center of the warcamp. The majority of the forces would be the veterans, regardless of gender they would acquire the surname Pan. Depending on the region, even commoners would call soldiers of the Sons of Kasimir with that salutation. The veterans would be divided in Towers and Journeys. A whole journey or Tower of 19 would sleep in 4 big tents close to their Kônmaster and the 2 other Journey/Towers that would form under the Kônmaster. The recruits would sleep with fewer amenities in the tents of the soldiers that would be at their side in battle.</p>

<p>The mercenary company also has their own people that would be needed for their own maintenance: cooks, smiths, bowyers, arrowmakers and all sorts of craftsmen. This retinue would oftentimes be accompanied by people trying their luck: traders, whores and beggars. Last but not least were the fresh recruits. First zealots that would flock to their colors, later soldiers of war, orphans and young rabble from the streets, wrought into soldiers. The recruits were given armor and weaponry but only basic skills were taught, the company operated under the tenet of "Train the soldier in the real world". If a fight broke out, a recruit would have 2 veterans by their side.</p>
<h2>Military Tactics</h2>
<p>The veterans were arranged in the infantry, called Towers and the cavalry, called Journeys. A single Journey or Tower would have 19 soldiers in it. Mounted troops would be armed with lances, bows and swords. They would oftentimes whittle down the enemy with their salvos before charging into them. The big warhorses trained by the Konpodaz would wreck havoc with their force alone. Towers oftentimes would form squares or simple lines but trained for many occasions. They'd carry long serrated pikes and swords. The armor that they wore was usually also heavier than their counterparts and every second soldier would carry a big tower shield on his back to shield both him and the soldier to his left. Every soldier, no matter if he was part of a Journey or Tower could bring a flail to battle if he wanted to. If the army were to face large-scale battles, Towers and Journey would band together with 2 more of them. Under a Kônmaster they would act now as a unit.</p>

<p>The Sons of Kasimir, after a quite lucrative deal in the untamed north, were looking to get back to the main continent. First refilling in the City of Jallbreg and then passing through <a href="Meadrath" class="internal-link">Meadrath</a> and the Kortopi mountains into the <a href="Battvia" class="internal-link">battvian Kingdom</a> and the <a href="Paper Cities" class="internal-link">Paper Cities</a>. War raged these paths, and war would mean opportunity for employment; the Battvians had already fought the City of Vorella for 6 years, who were trying to secede from the Throne, following the Paper cities in their tracks.</p>

<p>The Vorellan offered gold, glory and maybe something a bit more ethereal; whatever they offered, it sufficed to win the Sons of Kasimir over, or at the very least, the Triumvirate of Duchowy, Zennic and Mortal Flail. The Sons of Kasimir would engage in many battles and skirmishes but the use of gunpowder against their slow heavy infantry and horses that were very susceptible to the noise and impacts would see them weaken quite quickly. The final stand at Vorella saw almost the complete destruction of the Sons of Kasimir, while they stood as martyrs against the new weapons, other mercenary groups fled and the city watch surrendered. Only the Duchowy, spiritual leader and chronologist, would escape this slaughter. He would try to rally for funds and support in Vihr to see his company and their legacy made monastery</p>