%%
[[Aeldcult]]
[[Ukiolla]]
[[Grachy]]
[[Giant]]
[[Halgrach]]
[[Roygviil]]
[[Giantsrul]]
%%
<small><i>this article was written by Loop & Olle</i></small>

<p>Nostroya or in Grachi "new home" is the grachi and commonly used term for the Lands beyond the Grachhyll, including the Aeldveil and the Waelajokull.</p>

<h2>A broad history of Nostroya</h2>
<p>The Giantsrul describes a period of time where the mysterious Giants of the north ruled both the spiritual and material world, commanding both men and fey to their will, it is a period almost entirely shrouded in myth and fables, the Giants were said to dominate Trykkerog and Nostroya but vanished beyond the Heavens Furrow for unknown reasons in the 2nd century PA, although Pehki history as far as we know it has them abandoning the southern lands far earlier in any meaningful way.</p>

<p>The two emerging nations during the early Age of Silver were the Principalities of Ukiolla and Roygviil, formed initially by pehki tribes as settling federations, the Roymer of Roygviil being the elder and more prosperous nation of the two, with the Pehki of the north unifying as a single realm significantly later. During the 2nd century, Vihri explorers, adventurers and settlers first started expeditions around the Iron Claw when the infamous vihri sailor Fidor of Trazlov made the daring voyage and established Fidograd as the first village of what would later become known as the "grachi" people.</p>

<p>Growing settlements and a large influx of refugees, merchants, farmers and the like from the west could no longer be ignored by the established roymer, initially peaceful encounters between the two peoples led to skirmishes and attacks over land and sacred sites to the natives. To prevent tragedy and greater conflict, the leaders of the grachi and the roymer met at the emerging town of Istrov and agreed to peaceful terms: the grachi would be allowed to settle and farm the lands south of the Gior River but were not to set foot into the sacred groves of the southern Aeld circles and respect the land and its traditions. This agreement, known as the Istrov Pact was declared in 247PA and is to this date the subject of much speculation and controversy.</p>

<p>Over the next three centuries, the Pehki united under the leadership of the legendary Hero Kallevo who was said to be born of the River Asza and favoured by the fey, while the grachi population in the south kept growing and eventually fully cut ties with their ancestral home of Vihr to form the Kingdom of Halgrach. In this time Grachi settlements grew into towns, and small farming communities became cities: the major population centres of Halgrach, Voblag, Bryansk and Modva all grew around the Gior River, called Halgior by the grachian population. </p>

<p>The Breaking of the Pact and who was responsible for it are perhaps to this date some of the most controversial questions and topics of discourse around modern day nostroyan politics. The facts known are that in 487PA, Grand Prince Usse of Roygviil led his army southward and destroyed the city of Modva leading to centuries of fighting between the two countries, the breaking of the  <a href="Aeldcult" class="internal-link">Aeldcult</a> Circles, see specific information there, and the rift of Pehki and Roymer. As further discussed in other places, the Aeldcults first Druid and the High Prince of Ukiolla declined to take up arms on the side of their roymer cousins, considering the modern day political situation in the region, the fracture between pehki and roymer and the splintering of the Aeldcult the year 487PA is inarguably one of the most important in the history of the land.</p>
<p>The initial Roymer-Grachian War ended up in the capitulation of the Roygviil forces after nearly 3 decades of war, as well as the loss of large territories along the coast to the Kingdom of Halgrach, many roymer communities and the few aeld circles within halgrach could also no longer rely on the Pact to protect them and their customs, especially considering the significant portion of druidic elements that had actively participated during the war on the side of Roygviil.</p>

<p>In 601PA, large scale war broke out again between Halgrach and Roygviil following the events of the "Day of the Elk", exact details are unknown to those outside of the southern circles, but following a druidic ritual thousands of enraged beasts, including the especially fearsome fauna of Nostroya such as the infamous Direwolfs, Owlbears and the like emerged from the deep eastern Forests to devastate the landscape leading to a destroyed harvest and uncountable deaths among the grachi population. In response the King of Halgrach ordered the burning and destruction of many of the known southern groves, the hunt to extinction of untamed beasts and outlawed druidism altogether, before gathering the armies of Grachi to march north. Over the course of the 7th century, central Nostroya was engaged in an ongoing period of attrition battle and war of man and beast until Grachian forces laid siege to the ancient capital of Royba. It was at the walls of Royba that the full forces of both countries were brought to final confrontation during the battle of Royba in 690PA and the combined vihri and grachi military forces, assisted notably by powerful mages and clerics broke the Roymer army and razed Royba, essentially ending the war, largely subsuming the territories of central Nostroya and ending the ancient Principality.</p>
<h2>The Jättilkivi</h2>
<p>If you were to look on a map of Nostroya, and focus on an area that resembles small stones tumbling down the Mistspires towards the The Torn Sea, you would find the area known in Ukiolli known as Jättilkivi (Giants Boulders). This area is known in folklore and named for when one giant and a spirit who, ages ago, had a competition on who could toss a boulder into the sea. The devious Lempo, a malevolent spirit, challenged the Konung Otso, king of the giants and bears to a duel.</p>

<p>Whoever reached the sea, would claim the rivers, valleys and forests that lie between the Mistspires and the Torn Sea. After the competition had been going on for weeks, and thousands of boulders had been launched off the mountainside, Konung Osto was clearly in the lead. He had made it halfway to the coast, and nearing with every throw. This angered the malevolent spirit Lempo and gave him an idea. Lempo knocked all the boulders down the mountainside, leaving the peak bare to the bedrock. Lempo then convinced Otso to go and fetch all the boulders so they could continue their competition. As Otso was gathering the boulders halfway down the valley, Lempo pulled out one final rock. It was round and dark, like nothing he had seen before. The Dark Rock weight was so immense, as when Lempo picked it up, the bedrock underneath his feet gave way and cracked the mountain deep into its core. This dark rock he had hidden and saved for a terrible act. He threw the big rock so high into the sky, it blackened out the sun and when it finally found ground it cracked Konungen's skull right open and killing him on the spot.</p>
<p>The king of Giants and Bears is now said to lay somewhere there, in a sacred place underneath a profane Black Rock</p>