%%
[[Hainach]]
[[Elbae]]
[[Garmish Succession Crisis]]
[[Wars of Elbae Aggression]]
%%

<p>The Point Meso is a Bridge that which crosses the Mesovo on the Border of <a href="Hainach" class="internal-link">Hainach</a> and <a href="Elbae" class="internal-link">Elbae</a>, it links the town of Gelreas to the military fortress of Dor Beher and is the only major bridge allowing land traffic between the two nations, although many minor bridges, not suited for caravan travel, span the river north and south. The Bridge sits at a one of the natural crossings of the Mesovo where the width of the river is among the smallest after leaving the hilly mountain ranges in the south. Point Meso was finished in the year 699PA.</p>
<p>Point Meso is an Archbridge made out of Stone, spanning a total length of 190 metres and sitting at a width of near 30 metres, travel of naval vessels below it it possible as long as they don't exceed a certain height. The Bridge if formally owned by the Princedom of Hainach, as is the entire Mesovo River, although due to the current political situation both nations patrol the riverline and hold the bridge. The Official Authority over the Bridge itself lies within the Captain of Gelreas, Sir Beryl Rimond.</p>
<p>The growing refugee crisis following the <a href="Garmish Succession Crisis" class="internal-link">garmish War</a> in the north has been the main issue at hand for the Guards at Gelreas and Dor Beher both, on top of managing the difficult political situation of Gelreas being in charge of the bridge itself but technically under military obligations due to the relation of the Sultanate and the Princedom. The increasing Drug trade and other illegal activities as well as heavy duty security concerning government relief caravans and hold shipments from the Mesovo Hills  have resulted in stern controls at the border are on both sides of the Bridge.</p>
<h2>Gelreas</h2>
<p>The settlement of Gelreas began as a fishing hamlet and ferry station hundreds of years ago and was turned into a military encampment after the Kings of Reans loss of the Asef, the name describing the far north of Behera, bordering the Stormy Sea.</p>
<p>Gelreas continued to grow as a popular river crossing with an official ferry station being responsible for most of the travel across the river until construction of the Point Meso Bridge started in 681PA and later finished in 699PA. Once the Bridge stood as as the central land connection between Hainach and the Asef, Gelreas grew further as a logistical hub, handling travel from fishing, farming and mining villages and encampments from upstream in the Mesovo Hills. With the increase of commercial travel via merchant caravans from east to west, only further growing with the joining of Hainach in the so called Elbae Sphere of Prosperity as its Elayat following the defeat of the 2nd great elven War, Gelreas continued to become more important as the first and last stop for goods traveling in and out of Hainach.</p>
<p>While almost all large scale commercial operations in modern times tend to use the vibrant ports of the Stormy Sea, military travel and private caravans often do not have the luxury of sea travel for one or the other reason, leading to a steady flow of souls crossing the Bridge and resting or acquainting themselves in Gelreas. The City remains under the direct control of its military Commander, the Captain of the Bridge, a sign that commercial or administrative interests must take a step back here to security. The town of Gelreas notably houses a smaller exchange building where visitors can trade urien gryphons to elbae talents, as both currencies are used in Hainach but the talent is generally the accepted currency in the Sultanate.</p>

<h2>Dor Beher</h2>
<p>The Tower of Dor Beher, literally meaning "Gate to Eternity" in elvish, is a military fortification holding the western border of the Sultanate with its subject, the Princedom of Hainach. It is under the command of Bey Neoda Isheb and largely in charge of customs and security in regards to smuggling and the growing refugee crisis, Dor Beher is a strictly military encampment with no civil or commercial establishments in its area. </p>
<p>Dor Beher was built upon the fundaments of the Parelo Estate, a noble family of rich traders  during the times of the old Kingdom of Rean, the Sultans Army took over the Crossing and held it as a fortification while investing in the site as a military supply hub. During the 2nd so called <a href="Wars of Elbae Aggression" class="internal-link">War of Elbae Aggression</a> it acted as a staging ground for the successful invasion of Hainach.</p>