<p>The Thurimoi or usually just "Clockwerk Towers" of West Behera are considered one of the great wonders of the World, dating back likely to pre-collapse <a href="Cyraclion" class="internal-link">cyracli</a> civilizations. They are build in areas of high and near constant seismic activity, and function as self-sufficient systems that absorb and transfer seismic energy.</p>
<p>The region around the Chikari mountains is home to an ore named thurite, roughly translated to "song" in ancient cyracli. The ore possesses a unique quality as it is build up in an almost chamber like fashion and reverberates applied kinetic energy through itself and then out once more, creating essentially a delayed energy reverberation.</p>
<p>The core invention at the heart of the Thurimoi, or "singing Towers" was the thuric resonator, an artifact in the ottian sense that requires kinetic energy of predetermined frequencies to activate, therefor creating what we now understand to be a conditional Fluxbridge. This Fluxbridge feeds into an extremely simplified prism that simply generates the same amount of kinetic energy.
Using the unique reverberation quality of thurite, these Resonators essentially act as tuning forks that use the exact same reverberation energy when it is initially absorbed from ore within its vicinity as activation energy for their own Resonators. </p>
<p>This process has two fundamental effects: </p>
<p>1. The activation energy does not emanate outside of the thurite within vicinity of the resonator, interrupting the process of reverberation, therefore essentially "absorbing" seismic energy during earthquakes.</p>
<p>2. The Prism creates kinetic energy according to its activation energy that is transferred as rotation into the larger Tower structure usually spinning the central weight, often referred to as "the Wheelstone", on the surface.</p>