%%
%%
<h2>Physiology and Appearence</h2>
<p>This humanoid species originates in the Xeremesi mountains and the Kaito Highlands of the Beheran continent. Hatara appear humanoid but possess several unique characteristics that differentiate them from the traditional Beheran human.</p>
<p>They own two sets of arms, two "upper" and two "lower" arms with six fingers on each of their four hands, as well as six toes on their two feet. A heavy and muscular tail stabilizes their enlarged and wide torso. Hatara are considerably heavier than an average human, not only owed due to their exceptionally wide frame but also an average height between 7 and 8 ft. Supporting their immense body is an additional set of lungs and an enlarged heart.</p>
<p>A Hataras face is dominated by two distinct features: Their set of four eyes and their very wide but flat nose, they reach adulthood at the age of 12 and tend to live for around 75-85 years.</p>
<p>Hatara posses a unique inner organ sitting behind their livers, known as the Golom which produces a fluid known as Go. Go is secreted through pores on the Hataras skin, causing them to be entirely hairless and their skin to take on a striking rose-red colour. Go hardens over time when in contact with oxygen and continues to do so over time, unless broken up immediately. This leads to certain parts of a Hatara forming an extremely durable horn-like barrier, as well as Hatara shedding and replenishing constantly during movement. Hardened Go is best imagined as durable and transparent wax. </p>
<p>Hatara are exclusively Herbivorous and prefer elevated topography and tropical climates.
The muscular and broad neck muscles of the Hatara contribute to the power in their bites, although they could crush bones in animals and humanoids, they usually utilize this immense force of around 1300 PSI to crunch barks, fruits and nuts, their Go-coated teeth are almost indestructible and more durable than any artificially created substance.</p>
<h2>Behaviour</h2>
<p>The above mentioned physiology has made them incredibly adapt at climbing and Hatara often subconsciously assign different types of tasks to their upper and lower sets of arms, such as pulling with the upper and pushing with the lower arms.</p>
<p>The species lives in smaller communities called Circles and are likely to emigrate from their natal group upon reaching adulthood either forming or joining a new circle or becoming isolationist nomads. Hatara are sometimes employed as mercenaries, bodyguards or specialist warriors in Behera, Ilrakhan or Nirydia.</p>
<p></p>