<p>The Peruxa are a race of sentient avians that is found in the northern hemisphere of the Planet, primarily northern Inara and Zefellis. They are predominantly nocturnal and possess the capability of flight. They possess large eyes, sharp beaks and can rotate their head as much as 270 degrees due to their unique vertebrae. Peruxa grow to up to 130cm tall and possess a wingspan of up to 325cm, their raptor like talons give them great grip strength and allow for use of tools and complicated mobility. Peruxa are sexually dimorphic, with females typically growing larger than males. The lifespan of Peruxa can vary between the species sub families, but tends to average at between 50 and 65 years.</p>

<p>Renowned for their extremely potent eyesight, Peruxa do not rely on echolocation to navigate the night, but instead are able to use their tubular eyes to focus and view objects in enormous distance regardless of sunlight, owing to their massive posterior nodal distance. A consequence of this biology is the inability to turn their eyes, Peruxa instead turn their entire head as mentioned above.</p>

<p>Many Peruxa communities engage in matriarchal structures, with females often occupying leadership roles in their communities. Partially due to their larger size, female Peruxa tend to be considerably more residential and in some cases do not leave their nests for years.
Peruxa tend to organize in smaller communities and there are only few examples or large societies, due to their airborne nature and relatively small amount of natural predators, there is less reason to organize in great number.</p>
<p>Peruxa are uniquely gifted in the use of rune magic, most notoriously their binding sigils. A popular and infamous use case of these is the life-debt, a sigil placed upon a fertile peruxa egg that binds the young creature to the caster for life. Reports of Peruxa shamans transferring their own will, memory and consciousness into such a binded creature to take over their body remain conspiratorial but also not disproven.</p>